feat(nextjs): Add Next.js docs (#3319)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/manual-setup/custom-init.mdx

---

> title: Custom initialialization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Custom Initialialization
```

sidebar_order: 3
description: "Learn how to customize the SDK initialization."
---

Unlike other Sentry SDKs, the Next.js SDK doesn’t have to be initialized in code, since we do it for you.
You can still customize the `Sentry.init` call, though.

> ## Serializable values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Serializable Values
```

Serializable values must be placed in the `next.config.js`:

- `module.exports.serverRuntimeConfig.sentry` for server-side code.
- `module.exports.publicRuntimeConfig.sentry` for client-side code and fallback for server-side code.

See an example setting `debug: true` in [Manual configuration](/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/manual-setup/manual-config#extend-the-usage-of-webpack).

> ## Non-serializable values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Non-Serializable Values
```

> Sentry’s plugin for Next.js, installed along with the SDK, contains the object where non-serializable values must be defined. This must be done in the override of the `App` component:

Reviewer 2: @iker-barriocanal do you think it will be clear for the audience of this documentation what is a serializable configuration and what is not?

```javascript {filename:./pages/_app.js}
import { clientConfig } from "@sentry/next-plugin-sentry";
clientConfig.beforeSend = () => {
  // ...
};
```

<Note>

> Due to current Next.js limitations, there isn’t a way to set values for the server-side only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to current Next.js limitations, you cannot set values for only the server-side.
```
